# Fleksja

Fleksja was created with React-JS front end  and Django-Rest-Framework backend. It consists of Polish exercises that were created programmatically with the help of Morfeusz2 which is a morphological analyzer and generator.
 

I wanted to create an app that would allow me to create endless exercises with the least amount of effort. 

The first problem was finding a source of high quality Polish text, for that I used Polish literature in the public domain. Next I needed to find a way to generate various word forms of any given word. After researching I realised that Morfeusz2 would allow me to do just that. Now, I needed to turn any Polish passage into a Morphology exercise by automatically changing a percentage of words in the text into a dropdown multiple choice exercises, to achieve that I first created a ReactJs component called drop that takes “word” and “choices” as props. I used Bootstrap to achieve the dropdown, and React’s useState hook to change the appearance of buttons to let users know if their answers are correct or incorrect. 

Then I wrote a script in Python that takes a passage as an input, then splits the passage into words, and creates a serialised dictionary with said words. Then I created a for loop that loops as many times as 70% of the number of words in the passage. With every loop it generates a number between 2 and 7 to add to the Key, and then using Mofeusz2 word forms are generated, if Morfeusz2 successfully generates at least 2 words, then a Beautiful soup is used to add the tags for our Drop component, along with the necessary props. Afterwards the dictionary is turned back into a paragraph and a Post request is made to backend at the ‘/passages’ end point to add the passages. Ofcourse, before completing that last step I had to also create the backend to my application. To do so I first created a Django model to represent my passages, then I used Django Rest Framework Model Serializer class, Django Rest Framework's generic class-based views, and API views to quickly get my API ready for CRUD operations, once it was all set up and running properly, I created a custom permission class that only allows owners of a passage object to edit it, or delete it.

After that, I continued working on the design of my frontend application. I used the useEffect hook  to fetch data from a JSON file asynchronously when the component mounts, then data is shuffled and stored in the passages state. Then a loop over wraps each paragraph in a ‘div’ element and applies React-Jsx-Parser to parse the passages and render the paragraphs dynamically. I carefully made sure to make each element responsive to different screens.
